11/07/21
## Authors:
Stabeno, Phyllis J and Schumacher, James D and Bailey, Kevin M and Brodeur, Richard D and Cokelet, Edward D
## Title:
Observed patches of walleye pollock eggs and larvae in Shelikof Strait, Alaska: their characteristics, formation and persistence 
## Keywords:
pollock, schooling, patchiness, icthyoplankton, eddies
## Geographic Coverage
Shelikof Strait
## Field Dates:
N/A
## Significance:
Investigation of the spatial patchiness of ELS pollock in Shelikof Strait. Patches appear to be identified from currents, small-scale eddies, and proximity to geograhic features.

## Notes:
Using icthyoplankton surveys from 1979-1992, they estimate patchiness during surveys to look at the physical process that create and maitain patches in the western Gulf of Alaska.

Lloyd's index (mean ratio of population crowding [number of neighbors per area] to density) was used to estimate patchiness. Patchiness was greatist shortly after hatching (larvae), decreasing during early larval stafes, then increasing again with size. This suggests that a relationship exists with patchiness and age.

Patchiness generated by time-dependent flow:
- With uniform egg distribution and no shear in the current, everything would be moving uniformly (no patchiness). Varying currents with a vertical shear results in high patchiness. When currents are weak and relatively constant, patchiness is low, while patchiness is high in years with strong and highly variable currents. 

Patchiness near Sutwik Island:
- Larve concentrations are typically high near the island, generally resulting form a combination of hatch location, current, and typography. 

Patchiness associated with eddies:
- Patches of high density were found inside of eddies. The duration of the path is a function of the rossby radius and diffusion of larvae from the eddy. 

They propose an anlystical model of diffusion of larvae within an eddy as a function of swim speed. Which shows that a minmal swiming speed of 1 cm s-1 would be necessary to maintain a patch against diffusion (assuming swimming towards the center of the patch). While these speeds cannot be maintained by recently hatched larvae it may explain the increase in patchiness in larger sizes.