05/15/20
## Authors:
Im, Dong Hoon and Suh, Hae Lip
## Title:
Evidence for resource partitioning by ontogeny and species in calanoid copepods
## Keywords:
zooplankton, feeding migration, clanoid, stable isotope analysis, east sea
## Geographic Coverage
East sea
## Field Dates:
10/01/2012 - 10/30/2012
## Significance:
Observations of fine-scale feeding habitat partitioning by clanoid species in the East Sea through stable isotope analysis.

## Notes:
Based on competition theory, there are many more coexisting planktonic species then we would expect. However there is little knowledge of habitat partitioning among zooplankton.

In the East Sea (Japan Sea), there are 5 dominant calanoid species which are opportunistic omnivores and filter feeders. Here, they use stable isotope analysis to investigate the ecological niche of these calanoid species by using the isotropic signatures to identify the sources of energy uptake.

Water samples for POM signatures were taken at 0, 10, SCM, 100, and 200 m and filtered. Zooplankton were colleced with bongo nets, obliquely towed from 200m to surface. They are preserved, then later split and identified. Isotope measurements were taken either from individuals or from pooled samples of up to 50 individuals, with 4-5 subsamples for each species.

They found inter- and intra-specific differences in resource utilization based on copepod diet and the associations of C and N with the surface POM and micro-POM pools. In two species, the dietary preferences changed from pico- to micro-POM durin gthe progress of development, while larger species fed predominantly on micro-POM.

Two potential partitioning of food availability are possible in migrating copepods: feeding time, such as through differential periods of migration and residence in feeding areas, and fine-scale partitioning. The results here support the latter, where the phytoplankton signal dominates the POM in the surface, rather than detritus at depth.

The distribution ranges of these species may be influenced by temperature preference and thus their success/distribution. Variation between males and females was high.
